Good afternoon.
Welcome to session 109.
I am Mark Piccirelli.
I'm an engineer in the
Cocoa Frameworks group.
Today we're going to talk
about file coordination,
a new technology,
and I'm going to talk about what it is
and why it's important and how to use it.
First I'll actually talk about
why it's important and one
of the big reasons is iCloud.
It's one of the fundamental
technologies underlying it.
So in iCloud storage,
the piece of iCloud where the user's
own documents go back and forth,
in running on the user's system,
there is our iCloud system,
a collection of agents and
daemons that take care of,
you know, moving files around and on the
network and off and things like that.
And then there'll be
applications like yours.
Actually, that's TextEdit.
It's ours, but it's sample code,
so think of it as yours.
So,
and then the files that are in the cloud.
And what needs doing for a file that's
in the cloud is when updates come in
off the network and when they're pushed,
iCloud will write the changes to
the file on disk and then your
application has to read them.
And likewise,
when the user changes a file,
the file has to be saved on disk so that
the iCloud system can pick the changes
up and send them over the network.
So a lot of this was covered earlier
today in the iCloud storage overview.
But what we end up with in this situation
are some problems we have to solve caused
by the fact that there are multiple
processes accessing the same file.
So for example,
one process writing while another is
actually reading is potentially a very
bad thing as the thing that's reading
reads something that's half baked
because the writing is still going on.
So we have to answer the question,
how does a process know when it's
safe both to read and to write?
Another thing we have to answer is
the problem that iCloud will change
files and then your app must read them.
So we have to answer the question,
how does a process
know when it must read?
And the last thing is that iCloud
needs your files up to date to
do conflict detection so that
as the user is editing them,
there are times where iCloud has to
command your application to save the
contents to disk so it can look at it.
And so that raises the question,
how does a process know
when it must write?
The other feature that file
coordination is for is for autosave.
And autosave is a new document model
for Mac OS X where the user never has to
save and the window on the screen is the
file as far as the user is concerned.
So and this is all just covered in
the rather excellent presentation
that preceded this one,
autosave and versions in Mac OS X Lion.
And so for an example of
when this is an issue,
if you have a document that's open in
TextEdit and the user's editing away at
it and they do something like picking
it up in Finder and dragging it into
Mail to make an attachment out of it,
Mail wants to read the contents
of the document but it doesn't
want to read out-of-date contents.
So how does it tell TextEdit to save
the changes to the file so that it
can read something that's up-to-date
and make a Mail attachment out of it?
And so, you know,
autosave introduces this problem for us,
the possibility of processes
reading out-of-date files,
and that would be bad.
So once again,
the question has to be answered,
how does a process know
when it must write?
[Transcript missing]
And this is of course available
on both Mac OS X.7 and iOS 5.
It's actually in the Foundation library.
So a quick snippet of what
it looks like basically.
NS File Coordinator,
the two main methods are coordinate
reading at item at URL and
coordinate writing item at URL.
And the basic notion is that
tell us what you're doing and
we'll tell you when to do it.
So a quick snippet of what
it looks like basically.
NS File Coordinator,
the two main methods are coordinate
reading at item at URL and
coordinate writing item at URL.
And the basic notion is that
tell us what you're doing and
we'll tell you when to do it.
So a quick snippet of what
it looks like basically.
NS File Coordinator,
the two main methods are coordinate
reading at item at URL and
coordinate writing item at URL.
And the basic notion is that
tell us what you're doing and
we'll tell you when to do it.
NS File Presenter,
just to touch on it so you
know for the rest of the talk,
is the notion tell us who you are
and we'll tell you what to do.
So it has methods like presented item
did change and presented item did move
to URL and save presented item changes
and accommodate presented item deletion.
And the first two of these
are things you would think of
as a notification mechanism.
You register an NS file presenter
when your application is presenting a
file to the user and you get to hear
about other processes coordinated
file access when they're done.
What's a little more novel
are the second two methods,
save presented item changes and
accommodate presented item deletions.
You actually get to affect other
processes coordinated file access.
Another process is going to read,
you get to control what it
does read by saving first.
So when to use file coordinator,
when to do coordinated reads or writes.
You should use it with files that the
user thinks of as files and mostly
this is applicable to Mac OS X,
right,
because that's where the user sees files.
And when you do this,
you're coordinating with other things
like the finder and other applications,
other things that are also
accessing those files.
And you also want to use it for iCloud
documents even though the user doesn't
think of them as files in a file system,
they are.
So you want to coordinate with the iCloud
daemons and system components that are
also reading and writing those files.
Your goal is to play well
with other processes.
An important thing to do with
that is that you can't possibly
enumerate what all the other
processes are going to be and you
don't know what they're going to do.
I'm going to be showing you,
you want to use coordinated file access.
There's a specific way to do that where
you're not even really supposed to care
what's happening in other processes.
You want to be able to use the same
file access as you would in a file.
And of course, as time goes on,
there's going to be more and more
things using NS File Coordinator,
so you'll be interoperating with
things that aren't even there yet.
So you want to use file
coordinator when you're reading.
And again, this is a,
you want to use file coordinator
when you're reading files.
When you're creating files, including,
for example, exporting,
you have a document,
the user has a document open
in a window and they export it.
You want to coordinate the access,
the writing of that, so that if,
for example,
something that is watching the
file system starts reading just
because something appeared there,
you know, its reading doesn't start
until you're writing the file.
is done.
Updating, as in, you know,
auto-saving documents.
And copying files, Finder does this.
And also moving and renaming files,
again, Finder does this.
And this applies to directories too.
The class's name is NSFileCoordinator,
but you want to coordinate some
operations on directories also.
A lot of this stuff by the way,
NS Document and UI Document already
do this for you.
NS Document, for example,
when it's opening or saving documents
does coordinated reading or writing.
So when not to use file coordinator,
like any interesting mechanism,
it can be overused.
So I can let you off the hook right away,
some places where you
don't want to call it.
Temporary files that your
process has made just for
itself and also cache files,
even if they're going to
stick around for a long time,
and anything private enough to
your process that you know that
there's no reason for any other
process to be digging around in it.
So there's no reason to
coordinate with nothing.
When to be a file presenter?
Whenever your application is presenting a
file to the user for viewing or editing,
it's going to be in a window that
stays up on the screen for a while and
the user might be able to do something
with another application that will be
changing it while that window is up.
So, and all this, by the way,
also applies to file packages too,
which are both Mac OS X and
iOS directories that appear
to the user as single files.
And you do this so that you
can reload the document when
other processes change it.
And also perhaps close the document
when other processes will delete it.
So when the finder is about
to empty the trash and there's
a document still open in it,
it should be closed.
Otherwise it will just be a window
that's not connected to anything
and great confusion results.
Another thing I'm going to
mention is that there is an even
-- there's another mechanism in
NS File Presenter that allows you to
relinquish files to other processes.
When you register in NS File Presenter,
we don't like the terminology to say
that the file presenter owns the file,
but it does have sort of a right
of first refusal over other things
being able to read or write to
it without its permission first.
This is another thing
that both NS Document and
UI Document do this for you.
When you open an
NS Document or UI Document,
it registers itself as
an NS File Presenter.
When it's closed, it deregisters itself.
So NS File Coordinator,
the first big half of this API.
First of all, it is a locking mechanism.
If you catch me afterwards,
I can go into why we're not using
other locking mechanisms that are
already there like BSD advisory
locks or something like that.
Actually, the release notes go enumerate
what's wrong with those.
But they're still locking and we
implement pretty standard locking rules.
Readers don't block readers.
Readers do block writers.
Writers block readers and
writers block other writers.
File packages are interesting
because they're treated atomically.
If you do a coordinated read of
files in a file package and something
else wants to do a coordinated write
of a file in that file package,
the writer will be blocked
until the reading is done.
Because we want file packages to
always have consistent contents.
This is already a little bit
of a power user note for you.
NS file coordinators don't block
themselves so you can instantiate
an NS file coordinator and use it to
do a couple of different things at
once knowing that you won't create a
deadlock just within your own code.
The way you create an NS file coordinator
is with the initializer in it with
file presenter and we want to encourage
you to instantiate one of these per
operation and by operation I mean
something kind of big and lumpy,
not like opening the file is
one operation and reading the
file is another operation and
closing it is another operation.
And we even want you to use
NS File Coordinator if you're
doing pretty big batch operations.
Like when Finder is copying
a giant hierarchy of folders,
which might take quite a while to do,
that's still just one
NS File Coordinator that
it's using for all of that.
When you create an NS File Coordinator,
you get to specify an NS File Presenter.
What you're indicating when you do
that is that the NS file coordinator
is being created on behalf of that
file presenter or is going to do
something for that file presenter.
So for example,
whenever NS document does a
coordinated read or write,
it always passes itself as this.
And the reason you do this is
it lets us filter out messages
about your own file access.
So sticking with the
example of NS document,
it implements a presented
item did change,
but it's not interested
about changes it did itself.
And without this mechanism,
it would be pretty hard for it
to filter those out actually.
It also helps us break deadlocks,
getting this linkage of file coordinators
and file presenters accurate.
You know,
when something does a coordinated read
and that causes a message for a file
presenter of that read file and the
file presenter responds by doing a
coordinated write to update that file,
that would be a deadlock if we
didn't know that the file presenter's
writing is because of the reading.
So keeping these things
hooked up prevents deadlocks.
So back to those basic methods,
reading item at URL and
writing item at URL.
They both follow the same pattern.
You pass in a block and file
coordinator invokes the block for you.
What's interesting about these blocks,
by the way, is you get passed a new URL.
So you passed in one URL that
you wanted to read or write.
Well, while your reader or writer
is being made to wait,
the file might be moved or renamed.
And so you need up-to-date information
about where the file ended up before
you start reading or writing it.
So we pass you a new URL.
And as a little bit of esoterica,
in Snow Leopard,
we added NSURL caching of
all sorts of properties.
And it's always been a confusing
question about when do those
caches get invalidated?
Happily, when you're using this,
the answer is we'll pass you
a URL when something else read
or wrote while you're waiting.
And it'll be a new one
even if you don't have it.
And if it points to the same file,
so it'll have an empty cache
without stale values in it.
An interesting thing to note about
these methods is they're synchronous.
So if you are going to do something
that you don't want to block the UI,
you should do these on a background
thread or in a background queue.
An interesting thing to note about
these methods is they're synchronous.
So if you are going to do something
that you don't want to block the UI,
you should do these on a background
thread or in a background queue.
And it's a pretty simple example of how
to read these or how to invoke these.
Here is a fictional method called
read from URL in a fictional class
and it's doing a coordinated read by
first of all instantiating NS file
coordinator and then it invokes the
method coordinate reading item at
URL and then this might wait a while
depending on what other processes are
doing but eventually it will always
call your block and you can do that.
And do things like in this
simple example reading the
contents of a file into an NSData.
What's interesting about this API,
by the way,
blocks are still kind of new and we're
still designing new APIs with them.
In this one, we discovered it was most
convenient to actually require
the use of a block variable.
So block NSData, data equals nil.
And inside the reading block,
just assigning that value
and then afterwards returning
the data auto released.
And then if something goes wrong,
coordinate reading item at
URL might return an out error,
or I'm sorry,
might return an error by reference.
And when it does that, by the way,
it actually doesn't even
invoke your block at all.
It just sets NSError.
And in combination with this
use of the block variable,
it ends up being both correct and simple.
But you have to,
when you're working with blocks,
you'll see that experience
counts a little bit.
So you'll see this ends up being
pretty simple after a while.
So what might have just happened
while the block was not invoked?
Well, your process might have been
waiting for other processes
that were writing to the file.
And by that I mean other
uses of file coordinator.
And the file might have even been
moved or deleted during that time.
So if you have reading code
that does error checking,
it still has to do error
checking for things like the
file just isn't there anymore.
NSFilePresenter messaging.
When it was reading the file,
it might have told an NSFilePresenter
to actually update the contents.
And errors.
The NS File Presenter might
have tried to save the file but
failed horribly so that's why
NS File Coordinator can return errors.
So each of those two methods was for just
reading and writing one file at a time.
We also have a couple other methods
that combine these operations.
So coordinate reading item at URL and
writing item at URL all at once.
And an example of when you want to
use this is when you're copying a file
because you will be reading one file
and writing one file at the same time.
And the reason we have these kind of
combinatorial operations in there is
because it helps us avoid deadlocks.
If you tried to do a coordinated
read and then a coordinated
write nested inside of it,
that can cause a deadlock if some other
process does a coordinated write of the
same file and then a coordinated read
of the other file in the other order.
So we have a couple of these methods
that just let you say what you mean
more accurately to avoid trouble.
And another one in this vein
is actually coordinate writing
item at URL and writing item at
another URL at the same time,
which is what you use for moving.
So because in this model,
when you move a file,
you're actually writing the two files.
You are writing to the
file that you're moving,
picking it up and moving,
and you're actually,
if there is a file in the
way at the destination,
you'll be writing to
that too by replacing it.
So there's a handful
of options in this API.
When you're reading a file,
you can specify that the file
coordination mechanism itself
should resolve the symbolic
link if there is one there.
And the reason we provide this,
resolving symbolic links is not too hard,
but when you're talking about
how it interacts with a locking
mechanism and you might actually be
following a chain of symbolic links,
that's kind of difficult to get right.
So we do it for you if you so choose.
And it only applies to the item itself,
by the way.
Only if the file at the end of the path
is a symbolic link does this matter
because we're resolving all the other
symbolic links all the time anyway.
Another option is file coordinator
reading without changes.
By default,
readers give NS file presenters
of the file that they're
reading a chance to write.
But sometimes you're not interested.
I've been describing this behavior
where one process goes to read and
it causes another one to write.
Sometimes that's not useful.
So here's an option to turn it off.
And iCloud uses it.
And the reason iCloud uses it is
because it's always watching the
relevant files using FS events anyway.
And it is doing coordinated
reads and writes,
of course.
But if it does a coordinated read
and it's not the latest thing that
the user just edited on the screen,
that's okay because when
that's auto-saved again,
iCloud will see that with FS events
and just grab that and push it again.
So there are writing options too on
NS File Coordinator and no options
means you are updating the file.
And by updating I mean something like,
you know, like a save in NS Document.
So even when it's more
complicated than something like,
than just simply opening the file
and writing it and then closing it,
that's just one operation as far as
File Coordinator is concerned and the
example is safe saving of NS Documents.
All sorts of things go on but
that's just one coordinated right.
It's worth mentioning that we deal
in what the user thinks of as files,
not necessarily what really
are files in the file system.
Even during a safe saving,
there's actually a
couple of files involved.
There's the one that's being overwritten
and then there's the one that's saved off
to the side and then moved into place.
From the point of file coordinator,
that's just one file just as the
user thinks of it as one file.
There are other file coordinator
options that let you say what you mean.
The first one is writing for replacing.
You use this when you're
creating a brand new item or
you're moving an existing item.
We call it writing for replacing even
when you don't necessarily know that you
are replacing a file because checking
for a file to replace doesn't really
work in a file system because there
are so many race conditions possible.
You might check and then by
the time it really matters,
a file has appeared there even
though there wasn't one before.
So you just use this when
the situation warrants it,
you know, very,
very simply instead of writing
conditional code to figure out
whether or not to use this option.
And one of the things is it causes
NS File Presenter messaging where if
there is a file presenter registered
for the file that's being replaced,
it will be told that this file is going
to be deleted and replaced with another
one at the exact same location so it can
close a document or something like that.
And we use it during NSDocuments
Save As and Save To operations,
which, you know,
save a copy of the document that the user
is looking at off into a brand new file.
So writing for deleting is
pretty interesting because it has
special handling of directories.
If you say that you're doing a
coordinated write to a directory,
I'm sorry, if you're doing a coordinated
write to a directory where you're
using this deleting option,
What that means is if something
is already reading or writing
a file in that directory,
perhaps very deep in the hierarchy,
we have to wait until it's done.
We don't want to yank the
directory and everything it
contains out from underneath that.
And likewise,
if a directory is in the middle of
being deleted and something else tries
to do a coordinated read or write
into that thing that's being deleted,
we make that second thing wait so that,
you know,
the directory will be deleted by the
time it gets there but that's something,
that's the sort of error checking
you're supposed to do anyway.
So at least everything will be
in a consistent state by then.
And again,
just like for writing for replacing,
this tells NS file presenters
ahead of time that something
is going to be deleted,
including if you're deleting a directory,
if there are documents
open inside that directory,
they will be told that they will be
deleted with the rest of the directory.
So, and writing for replacing actually
does some of the same things.
The distinction between writing for
deleting and writing for replacing is
actually too much to go into up here.
You should check out the release
notes but it has to do with
if something gets moved while
something is waiting to access it.
And there is also writing for moving.
It has the same sort of waiting
rules as far as directories go.
If a directory is being moved,
it will wait until things are done
reading or writing that directory.
So what's good about all this,
by the way, is that operations on giant
directories containing great big
numbers of subfolders and files
can just be one coordinated write.
So there isn't a whole giant interprocess
communication storm going on during it.
And in the example of moving,
it actually doesn't cause any
additional file presenter messaging
that wouldn't happen anyway.
So things like "and this file presenter
presented item did move to URL" actually
happen even when this isn't used.
So one last option,
and it's pretty interesting
in the context of iCloud,
is File Coordinator Writing for Merging.
And it tells any file presenter of a
file that you are about to write that
it should write first if there are
changes that the user has made in the UI.
And then what you do is
while you're writing,
writing encompasses reading for
the purposes of our locking rules,
but what you do in your writing
is you actually read and you can
do things like conflict detection,
which is what iCloud uses.
So it uses this option to make sure
that before it decides what the most
up-to-date thing is for the user,
to make sure that it has all the
information about what the user has just
done in an application while it's open.
One last method in
NS File Coordinator worth
mentioning is item at URL,
did move to URL.
As I mentioned earlier,
we deal with what the
user thinks of as files.
And what this allows us to do,
by the way,
is handle complicated case where
even though it's the same file,
its name is actually changed
because of file name extensions.
So to take advantage of this,
you have to tell us when it
just happened by invoking it
during coordinated writing.
And as an example, NS Document uses this
so that in TextEdit,
if a document,
a rich text document switches
between RTF and RTFD because an
attachment has been added to it,
it does this so that everything
knows that this file that used to
be called .RTF is now called .RTFD.
Moving on to NS File Presenter.
There have been plenty of
locking mechanisms before.
This is sort of the more novel
half of file coordination.
The basic concept is your app says what
it's showing to the user and because
it's done that it gets to participate in
other processes' coordinated file access.
And it actually gets notified of
uncoordinated file access too.
So when you're doing things like
you have a document open in TextEdit
and then you edit it with Emacs
at the same time for some reason,
NS Document will actually use
NS File Presenter or because it's a
file presenter will get notified of that
change even though of course Emacs is not
going to be updated to use coordinated
writing anytime soon I'm sure.
And the way you use it is you register
an NS file presenter and it's a protocol,
not a class, and it's something that both
NS document and UI document implement.
and their class methods
on NS File Coordinator for
registering file presenters.
I just simply add and
remove file presenter.
And what's interesting about
this is you always have to
invoke the removing method,
even in a garbage collected application.
And the problem is that
DL is often too late.
It's too indeterminate.
So NS Document, for example,
does this in its close method.
So after that point,
it's not interested in getting
any more notifications.
There's a property that you get to
implement called presented item URL and
you don't tell file coordination
where the file to be presented is.
File coordination will ask your
file presenter at the right time.
And actually on any thread at any time.
So notice that this
is an atomic property.
There's no non-atomic declaration there.
And there's no setter that goes with
this because you don't tell file
coordination when the file is moved,
even if you have something in
your application that allows
the user to move the file.
You don't call set presented item at URL.
What you do is you do a coordinated
file access for moving that if
your app's UI supports that.
Another property is called Presented
Item Operation Queue and it's the
queue for all the other messages
that I'm going to talk about,
what queue they get invoked on.
So it's very often okay to return
NS Operation Queue main queue but
very often it's not because it's
easy to create deadlocks that
way as everything fights over the
main thread in your application.
So NS Document actually uses
a private queue of its own
for receiving these messages.
So two kind of advanced things in the
NS File Presenter API are Relinquished
Presented Item to Reader and
Relinquished Presented Item to Writer.
And they tell your NS File Presenter
that something wants to read or write
the file that you're presenting.
and they are past a block and you must
invoke the past in block quickly because
some other process is waiting for it,
of course.
So and when you do this you get to
pass a block of your own and it will be
called when the reader or writer is done.
So as an example,
I'd like to call it a simple example,
but if you haven't seen blocks before,
nothing is simple at first.
But here we have an implementation
of a link which presented item to
writer and in this fictional class,
this class has a method
called wait for writer on it.
And what wait for writer
does is it can do anything.
It might block the UI momentarily,
hopefully doing something
nice with progress indication,
or it just might make sure that this
file presenter doesn't have any file
access of its own already going on.
So when relinquish presented
item to writer is invoked,
this object sends itself wait for writer.
And it can do things like stop
looking at the file that time.
One interesting thing to note,
sort of an advanced thing in NS Document,
we have this perform asynchronous
file access using block.
If you're wondering why is all that
machinery necessary when we have
this even lower level synchronization
mechanism and it's because there
are situations where you not only
want to don't look at the file,
you don't want to even look
at the IVARs whose values
depend on what's in the file.
So that's where perform asynchronous
file access using block comes from.
You can't make a decision based on a
file's modification date if it's in
the middle of changing right then.
With this stuff you can, you know,
make decisions based on the state of
the file and then make sure other things
don't change the file while you're
actually acting on those decisions.
So,
and this wait for writer is an example
of something that could do that.
So when the object's
own file access is done,
it calls this block that we passed
to it and it passes in another block,
stop waiting.
And when that block is invoked,
now we can call the writer.
We can let the other process go.
And when it is done,
the reacquirer block that we pass into
it is called and at that point we can
tell our own object to stop waiting.
So there are other methods
in this file presenter.
So first of all, to hear about changes,
presented item did change and
presented item did move to URL.
So that's pretty good.
That's pretty simple compared to
using something like FS events
or VNode dispatch sources,
which is actually what
some of this is built on.
You get these messages and
as their name implies did,
you catch up.
So and usually this happens while
you've relinquished to a writer while
your file presenter has given explicit
permission to other processes to write.
But not always because again,
not everyone uses file coordination.
And when you get a presented item did
change just in the middle of nowhere,
you know, do the best you can just reread
the contents of the file.
So if you know,
we want more and more people to
use file coordination to close the
kind of race conditions that can
happen when you have to do this.
So a big part of NS File Presenter,
it's what makes a lot of
iCloud work and also autosave,
is being able to implement this method,
save presented item changes
with completion handler.
So it's your indication that
something wants to read the most
up-to-date contents of the file
that you're presenting to the user.
And if you're doing
something like autosaving,
like NS Document,
the support we just added in Lion, yes,
now you should save
presented item changes.
In an older NS Document application
that hasn't been updated
to use autosaves in place,
we don't make it save then.
We leave the user with
control over when to save.
But in the newer stuff,
we get to do this.
So by the way,
the implication there is that autosaving,
as was introduced in
the last presentation,
is actually a pretty important part
of being an iCloud application also.
And what you should do when you
get this method is save the user's
changes and its document example,
invoke save to URL of
type for save operation,
etc., etc.
And you want to be quick about this.
So again, another process is waiting.
So this is no time to present UI.
It's no time to ask the
user if it should be saved.
The answer is yes.
And you don't want to block
another process while the user,
they might not even be looking at that
app right then to answer the sheet
if you put one up in front of them.
So always invoke the completion
handler because some other poor
process will be blocked until you do.
So getting deleted.
So if your file is open and
something does a coordinated write
that says it's going to delete it,
this is the message you'll get.
Accommodate presented item
deletion with completion handler.
And for example, NS document,
I don't think it does this
in the C that you have,
but it will any second now,
will actually start closing the document.
So if it's open and it's in the
trash and the user empties the trash,
you know, the user dragged the
document into the trash,
they went to empty the trash,
they were asked,
do you really want to delete this?
At that point,
it's safe to really close the document,
you know,
if the user says yes to empty the trash.
So, and again,
this is not a good time to present UI.
It's a good time to remove UI,
but not a good time to
ask the user a question.
And again, don't forget that completion
handler because you will leave some
other process blocked if you don't,
at least until your own process ends.
So versions.
In the last talk,
the NS Document Auto-Saving and Versions
presentation right before this one,
you learned that we have an
NS File Version class and it's very cool.
We also have a way to notify you
if you're an NS File Presenter
of versions being added or
removed to the file that you are
presenting with methods like this.
Presented item did gain
version and did lose version.
And something really just for
iCloud is the presented item did
resolve conflict version method.
What iCloud does is when
it detects a conflict,
it doesn't even really
try to resolve it for you.
It just detects it.
It picks a winner and it leaves the
winning document contents in the file and
it picks the loser and it makes what's
called a conflict version out of it.
And then it uses file coordination
in such a way that the application
gets a notification that this
conflict losing version was added.
So, and this is how you take care of it.
And of course in NS Document we've
pretty much taken care of it for you.
We put you in the versions
browser and we indicate where this
came from and stuff like that.
So, if you're not using NS Document,
for example, you'll probably need to,
if you're not using
NS Document or UI Document,
you'll probably need to learn these.
Supporting iCloud.
The last topic to talk about.
I keep talking about NS Document does
this for you automatically.
UI Document does this
automatically for you.
But not all apps are document based.
A bit of terminology that
we keep throwing around.
I don't think marketing likes it
very much but none of us engineers
have thought of a better word
so we keep calling it these.
What is a shoebox application?
It's an application that
does not deal in documents.
It just shows the user their data.
It's not files.
And popular examples
are iPhoto and iTunes.
You can look at the files that
your pictures or music are stored
in but in general you don't.
You just use the UI that
it puts up for you.
And the name comes from is because it's
like a shoebox of pictures or tapes.
Using NS File Presenter in shoebox apps,
you can do it.
NS File Presenter,
it has the word file in its name,
but that's okay.
Just like NS File Manager,
NS File Wrapper,
it applies to both directories and files.
You can use it when you're
presenting a directory full of files,
not just one file.
In a particularly interesting
kind of directory are what's
called iCloud weak packages.
It's a directory with a
specific file name extension,
W-E-A-K-P-K-G.
It doesn't matter much that this is
a little unattractive as far as file
name extensions go because users
aren't supposed to ever see them,
right?
When you're talking about a
shoebox app like iTunes or iPhoto,
the user doesn't dig around in the files.
So something like this.
For iCloud, it'll be deep in the
user's library folder.
So in iCloud,
we'll be digging around in those
files and so will your application.
[Transcript missing]
As far as file coordination
is locking is concerned,
this all comes about from the
fact that it's just another
kind of file package to it.
When you read anything
in that file package,
nothing else is allowed to
write anywhere in that file
package while you're doing that.
So presenting a package,
presenting a directory like these kind
of things that you'll use for shoebox
apps that interoperate with iCloud.
Many of the regular methods I've
already told you about apply.
Relinquish presented item to reader and
relinquish presented item to writer.
You'll get these when iCloud wants to
read anything at all in the directory
of your stuff and you get to fend it
off if you have something complicated
going on in the user interface
until you're ready to let it go.
And again,
and also save presented item to reader.
So presenting item changes
with completion handler.
You know, when iCloud wants to read,
if you want to take the opportunity
to make sure everything is
completely up to date with
what the user has done in the UI,
this is your opportunity when
save presented item changes with
completion handlers invoked.
So presenting package sub-items, well,
as far as the notifications go,
if you have an iCloud directory
with a bunch of files in it
laid out however you might,
You need a more fine-grained
notification really than just
presented item did change.
Go dig around in everything looking to
see what iCloud just dropped off for you.
So we also have methods like this,
presented item,
sub-item did appear at URL and did
change and did move and accommodate
presented sub-item deletion.
And what's different about these compared
to methods you saw before is that
they're messages about individual files.
You'll get a URL that
indicates that locates a file
inside your iCloud directory.
This doesn't actually work on the
seed you have right now by the way,
but it is definitely coming soon.
The stuff you saw in the
earlier NS Document talk,
most of that is really there,
but the support for iCloud directories,
not quite yet, but soon.
You'll also need to get notifications
about versions of packaged sub-items,
so your directory full of stuff
that iCloud is digging around
in while your app is also.
Individual files in one of
these iCloud weak packages,
one of these directories,
have their own versions,
so iCloud is doing version detection
on a very fine-grained basis.
And with these NS File Presenter methods,
you'll get notifications about
that on a very fine-grained basis.
So it did gain version, did lose version,
and did resolve conflict version.
So to summarize,
we've introduced a bunch of new features
in both iOS and Mac OS X.7 this week.
Two in particular, iCloud and autosave,
we discovered that we could solve
a lot of the problems that they
share with one new set of mechanisms
for both locking and notification.
And we wrap them up in a class
called NS file coordinator and in
general you want to use it whenever
your application is changing files.
Regardless of, well,
unless of course there
are the sort of files,
you know, temporary directories,
things like that,
and you want to use NS File Presenter
when showing files to the user even
when the user doesn't know their files,
even when they think that
they're looking at their photo
library or something like that.
So for more information,
Bill Dudney can answer your questions
about what we've talked about today.
There's the documentation,
excellent as always, up there,
including release notes.
There are the developer forums
and there are header files
with super copious comments.
They might not help you understand
why things are happening but
they will definitely describe
in great detail what happens.
So in the Foundation framework.
Related session,
a lot of these have already happened.
What's new in Cocoa,
iCloud storage overview,
autosave and versions.
Tomorrow at 3:15 is storing documents
in iCloud using iOS 5 which is
mostly about the UI document
class that's been added to UI kit.
And also on Thursday in Nob Hill you'll
hear about some of this iCloud stuff also
and what's new in Core Data on Mac OS X.
Thank you very much.